doc: add tips about lake usage (#510)
leanprover-community/leanprover-community.github.io: templates/install/tricks.md

# Tips and Tricks about Lean Projects

These tips and tricks about managing Lean projects should be considered workarounds or common practice. Some care is adviced when trying these non-standard setups.

*Note:* Things here might change as `lake` is being developed, as features described here are not necessarily officially supported by `lake`. This file has been written for Lean `v4.10.0`. If in doubt, ask for help on [Zulip](https://leanprover.zulipchat.com).

## Shared Mathlib

If you start many projects which all use the latest stable version of mathlib, e.g. because you have little
disk space available, it might be worth setting them up using one centralised mathlib instead of
letting every project download there own clone.

Here is a guide on best practise on how to achieve that.

1) First, clone the version of mathlib somewhere on your computer:
   ```bash
   git clone --branch v4.10.0 git@github.com:leanprover-community/mathlib4.git
   ```
   Note that `v4.10.0` is the tag of the latest release, you can look at [mathlib's tags](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/tags) to find out which is the most recent release version.

>    (If you don't have git setup correctly using an SSH key, you might want to use `git clone --branch v4.10.0 https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4.git` instead.)

Reviewer: Alternative phrasing, for your consideration:
```
The above line assumes you have set up git using an SSH key. If you have not set this up correctly, you may want to use `git clone --branch v4.10.0 https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4.git` instead.```

> 2) Go inside your mathlib and download cache:

Reviewer: "download the current cache"?

   ```bash
   cd mathlib
   lake exe cache get
   ```
3) If you ever want to **update** your global mathlib, come back to the mathlib directory and call
   ```bash
   git checkout v4.11.0
   lake exe cache get
   ```
   with the [version](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/tags) you'd like to update to.

> 4) Now if you don't already have a Lean project, create it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) If you don't already have a Lean project, create it.

   ```bash
   lake new MyProject math.lean
   cd MyProject
   ```
5) In the project `MyProject` you need to modify two things:

>    <!-- 1) Make sure `lean-toolchain` contains the string `leanprover/lean4:v4.10.0` with the same version your shared mathlib is at. -->

Reviewer: Would you like to include this again?

   * In `lakefile.lean`, replace the line `require "leanprover-community" / "mathlib"` with
     ```
     require mathlib from ".." / "relative" / "path" / "to" / "mathlib4"
     ```
   * Now inside `MyProject` you need to clean up lake:
     ```bash
     rm -rf .lake # because `lake clean` does not remove `.lake/packages/mathlib` which might have been downloaded by `lake new`.
     lake clean # or potentially `lake update -R mathlib` instead

>      ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ```

>      *(note: it looks like a bug that with a simple `lake clean`, there might still be a folder `.lake/packages/mathlib` floating around from before you changed the `lakefile.lean`. However, deleting `.lake/` is a reasonably save action as it only contains build artifacts that are fully recovered by the next `lake` call.)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     *(note: it looks like a bug that with a simple `lake clean`, there might still be a folder `.lake/packages/mathlib` floating around from before you changed the `lakefile.lean`. However, deleting `.lake/` is a reasonably safe action as it only contains build artifacts that are fully recovered by the next `lake` call.)*

>    * Your project should be ready and when you add `import Mathlib` in a file and click "Restart File" in VSCode, it should be reasonably quick without rebuilding mathlib.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Your project should be ready: when you add `import Mathlib` in a file and click "Restart File" in VSCode, it should be reasonably quick, without rebuilding mathlib.

   The above line assumes you have set up git using an SSH key.
   If you have not set this up correctly, you may want to
   use `git clone --branch v4.10.0 https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4.git` instead.

2) Go inside your mathlib and download the current cache:
   ```bash
   cd mathlib
   lake exe cache get
   ```
3) If you ever want to **update** your global mathlib, come back to the mathlib directory and call
   ```bash
   git checkout v4.11.0
   lake exe cache get
   ```
   with the [version](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/tags) you'd like to update to.
4) If you don't already have a Lean project, create it.
   ```bash
   lake new MyProject math.lean
   cd MyProject
   ```
5) In the project `MyProject` you need to modify the following things:
   * Make sure `lean-toolchain` contains the string `leanprover/lean4:v4.10.0` with the same version your shared mathlib is at.
   * In `lakefile.lean`, replace the line `require "leanprover-community" / "mathlib"` with
     ```
     require mathlib from ".." / "relative" / "path" / "to" / "mathlib4"
     ```
   * Now inside `MyProject` you need to clean up lake:

>      ```bash
>      rm -rf .lake # because `lake clean` does not remove `.lake/packages/mathlib` which might have been downloaded by `lake new`.
>      lake clean # or potentially `lake update -R mathlib` instead
>      ```
>      *(note: it looks like a bug that with a simple `lake clean`, there might still be a folder `.lake/packages/mathlib` floating around from before you changed the `lakefile.lean`. However, deleting `.lake/` is a reasonably safe action as it only contains build artifacts that are fully recovered by the next `lake` call.)*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     ```bash
     lake update -R mathlib # use the new path for mathlib
     rm -rf .lake/packages/mathlib # delete the previous local clone of mathlib
     ```
```

`lake update -R mathlib` should be enough to switch to the relative mathlib. If not, that is a bug. Also, `lake clean` does not delete Lake packages, it merely removes build outputs.

Author: updated

   * Your project should be ready: when you add `import Mathlib` in a file and click "Restart File" in VSCode, it should be reasonably quick, without rebuilding mathlib.

> 6) When you updated your global mathlib it might be enough to call
>    ```
>    lake update -R mathlib
>    ```
>    which would in theory update everything automatically.
>    However, if there are breaking changes to the `lakefile` parsing, you might need to
>    * edit `lean-toolchain` to be the same as your global mathlib.
>    * make sure `lakefile.lean` parses without error in the new version.
>    * try `lake update -R mathlib` again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6) Updating your global mathlib should, in theory, update everything automatically.
   However, if there are breaking changes to the `lakefile` parsing, you might need to
   * edit `lean-toolchain` to be the same as your global mathlib.
   * make sure `lakefile.lean` parses without error in the new version.
   * try whatever broke again.
```

You should not need to `lake update` a relative dependency. (as path dependencies are not versioned).

Author: It is necessary, but for a different reason: mathlib has various post-update hooks which are called here. I added a sentense explaining this.
